***********************************
ChatGPT allowed for this assignment
***********************************

This assignment encourages you to explore the use of a popular large
language model (LLM), ChatGPT, in order to help you think about what
these tools will be helpful with and what the programmer needs to be
able to do to specify the problem and test that the answer is
reasonable. 

The original version of this problem asked you to make a "Circle"
class, which makes use of your "Point" class from the previous
assignment. Start by symlinking point.hpp and point.cpp from the point
directory into the current directory:

  ln -s ../[point dir]/point.hpp
  ln -s ../[point dir]/point.cpp

Now write a circle.hpp file, which declares the class Circle. Your
circle class should have two private fields:
  - A Point for the center (remember: Point is a type, so we can have
    a field whose type is "Point")
  - A const double for the radius

Your circle should then have three pieces of public functionality:
  1.  A constructor that takes a Point and a double and initializes
      the center and radius from them. Note that you should use an
      initializer list for both fields and will *have to* for the
      const radius field. 
  2.  The method:
        void move (double dx, double dy)
      which moves the circle's center by <dx,dy> (hint: Point already
      has a move method) 
  3.  The method 
        double intersectionArea(const Circle & otherCircle)
      which computes the area of the intersection of this circle and
      otherCircle. 
      Note that if you lack the domain knowledge for this problem, you
      can (and should) find it on the internet before you begin the
      problem! 

Declare these methods and constructor in your Circle class (in
circle.hpp) and implement them in circle.cpp.

Try using the above directions as a prompt to ChatGPT.

Check the result:

- Private fields
- The constructor
  o Are the parameter types correct?
  o Does it do what you expect?
- move method
- intersectionArea method
  o How can you test this?

We provide a main.cpp file that reads in circles from stdin and
calculates their intersections. The input it reads starts with a line
containing the number of circles to have. The next (ncircles) lines
describe a circle with three doubles: x y radius. After that, there
are 0 or more commands, "i c1 c2" or "m cnum dx dy". The first prints
the area of intersection of circles c1 and c2 (where these are numbers
that specify which circle). The second moves circle cnum by
(dx,dy). We providee a sample input (input1.txt) and output
(output1.txt).

Prompt ChatGPT to create a Makefile, which will compile your code into
a program called "circles".

How do you need to prompt it to work for this directory layout, C++ 98
standard, and the -Wall -Werror -pedantic compiler flags we like to
use? Are there any other dependencies you think should be in it?

Test your code with the provided input1.txt and output1.txt like

./circles < input1.txt

And make sure the output matches output1.txt.

Submit all your source code and Makefile for this problem. Then find
the reflection assignment on the Canvas site.

If you want to do some ungraded extra practice, see the
EXTRA-PRACTICE-README. 
