***********************************
ChatGPT allowed for this assignment
***********************************

This assignment encourages you to explore the use of a popular large
language model (LLM), ChatGPT, in order to help you think about what
these tools will be helpful with and what the programmer needs to be
able to do to specify the problem and test that the answer is
reasonable. 

The original version of this problem asked you to write a recursive
function 

unsigned power(unsigned x, unsigned y)

which computes x to the y power (problem 7.6 in AoP). Note that while
0 to the 0 is undefined in mathematics, we specify that 0 to the 0
shall be 1 for this function. Save it into a file called
"power.c". You MUST use recursion (no iteration).

If you ask ChatGPT something like:

-> can you write a recursive function in C to calculate x to the power
   of y?

Notice that the function does not have the desired parameter
types. Try to prompt the LLM to adjust the parameter types.

Further notice that the algorithm may not be the simplest one. My
result uses a math identity to compute the half power, then square it
if the exponent is even. For some applications, this optimization may
be unnecessary, and you may want something easier to read and
interpret.

Is the result generated by ChatGPT head or tail recursive? Can you get
it to produce a tail recursive implementation?

So you have an answer. Is it a good answer? Testing is crucial always,
but especially if you did not follow the Seven Steps to come up with
the answer yourself. It would be good to use test-driven development,
especially when you are testing an answer a LLM came up with.

Luckily, you have already written test cases. Use your test-power.c
from your previous assignment to test the implementation of power. You
can symlink the file from the previous assignment into this directory:  

ln -s ../028_tests_power/test-power.c ./

You should then write a Makefile which will compile each C file
separately to an object file, and link them together.

Submit power.c for this assignment. Then find the reflection
assignment on the Canvas site.
